feat!: add static/dynamic context (#171)
open-feature/spec: specification/glossary.md

### Rule

A rule is some criteria that's used to determine which variant a particular context should be mapped to.

> ## SDK Paradigms

Reviewer: FWIW, I really prefer referring to these as two *paradigms*, rather than "modes"/

> Feature flag frameworks tend to come in two categories: those designed for use with a single user client application, and those designed for multi-user applications, such as web server applications. Some parts of the OpenFeature specification diverge depending on which paradigm the implementation seeks to adhere to.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say that the frameworks come in two categories - many frameworks support both paradigms. I'd say "have SDKs which operate in two distinct paradigms" instead.

Author: Updated.

> ### Multi-Context Paradigm

Reviewer: I'm not sure multi-context and single-context are the best names. I prefer dynamic-context and static-context instead. IMO that's the core distinction between the two paradigms - the context isn't fixed, and need to be provided each time.

Author: I think I agree. I will work on this wording.

Author: Addressed - dynamic/static

> Server-side use cases typically perform flag evaluations on behalf of many users, with each request or event being associated with a particular user or client. For this reason, server frameworks typically operate something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Server-side use cases typically perform flag evaluations on behalf of many users, with each request or event being associated with a particular user or client. For this reason, server frameworks typically operate similarly to this:
```

- the application is initialized with some static context (geography, service name, hostname, etc)
- with each request or event, relevant dynamic context (for example, user session data) is provided to flag evaluations

### Single-Context Paradigm

In contrast with server-side or other service-type applications, client side applications typically operate in the context of a single user. Most feature flagging libraries for these applications have been designed with this in mind. Frequently, Client/web libraries operate something like this:

- an initialization occurs, which fetches evaluated flags in bulk for a given context (user)
- the evaluated flags are cached in the library
- flag evaluations take place against this cache, without a need to provide context (context was already used to evaluate flags in bulk)

> - Functions are exposed on the libraries that signal the cache is no longer valid, and must be reconciled based on a context change. This frequently involves a network request or I/O operation.

Reviewer 2: This bullet point uses sentences whereas the previous don't

Author: I'll try to put both these ideas in a single sentence.

### Rule

A rule is some criteria that's used to determine which variant a particular context should be mapped to.

## SDK Paradigms

> Feature flag frameworks have SDKs which operate in two distinct paradigms: those designed for use with a single user client application (e.g. mobile phones), and those designed for multi-user applications, such as web server applications. Some parts of the OpenFeature specification diverge depending on the paradigm.

Reviewer 3: Yea without this my brain connected `web server applications` to `web applications`

> Feature flag frameworks have SDKs which operate in two distinct paradigms: those designed for use with a single user client application (e.g. mobile phones), and those designed for multi-user applications, such as web server applications. Some parts of the OpenFeature specification diverge depending on the paradigm.

Reviewer 3: There is certainly a language challenge here where using `user` is more likely to be easily understood initially by developers new to Feature Flags, where `context` is the more technically correct term. So it really depends on the target audience we are trying to speak to with this document.

> Feature flag frameworks have SDKs which operate in two distinct paradigms: those designed for use with a single user client application (e.g. mobile phones), and those designed for multi-user applications, such as web server applications. Some parts of the OpenFeature specification diverge depending on the paradigm.

Reviewer 4: @jonathannorris yeah agree with the point. However, I think the spec should be generic enough with the terminology to cover a wide verity of usecases and then give examples to connect with developer scenarios. And this comment is connected with this poll [1]

[1] - https://github.com/open-feature/spec/discussions/191

> Feature flag frameworks have SDKs which operate in two distinct paradigms: those designed for use with a single user client application (e.g. mobile phones), and those designed for multi-user applications, such as web server applications. Some parts of the OpenFeature specification diverge depending on the paradigm.

Author: > There is certainly a language challenge here where using user is more likely to be easily understood initially by developers new to Feature Flags, where context is the more technically correct term that can help describe more diverse use cases. So it really depends on the target audience we are trying to speak to with this document.

My philosophy on this is normative text should prioritize technical correctness, while the non-normative sections lean more toward practical examples and "typical" patterns.

### Dynamic-Context Paradigm

Server-side use cases typically perform flag evaluations on behalf of many users, with each request or event being associated with a particular user or client. For this reason, server frameworks typically operate similarly to this:

- the application is initialized with some static context (geography, service name, hostname, etc)

> - with each request or event, relevant dynamic context (for example, user session data) is provided to flag evaluations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- with each request or event, relevant dynamic context (for example, user session data, unique user identifiers) is provided to flag evaluations
```
